Jerry I think I'm high oh good more
Jerry hey everybody welcome back Greg
and Ryan here for another breakdown of
Twin Peaks the return this is episode 7
but before I get started hit that
subscribe button for more from gamespot
universe we've got American Gods Fargo
and a lot more now but squeeze our hands
off and get into episode 7 that's a
reference to the road yeah the bulb bulb
yeah the in the in the sidewalk guys
yeah that's me
[Music]
okay right from the start we got the
missing pages - Laura Palmer's diary I
thought they're going to take 8 episodes
before they came back to these pages but
now they start writing to it everything
about this episode they really just went
right into expository momentum from
beginning yeah the plot moves pretty
quickly in this episode unlike a lot of
the previous now there also isn't a lot
that we learn from it either I mean we
just get the pages and the only one we
see very closely is where she describes
her dream with Annie Frank is basically
the audience in that scene where Hawkes
like so here's what happened 26 years
ago for everyone you may have forgot
that this is her diary and we're just
going to go from there
and this is based on with the log lady
told me with one slight additional
detail which was just that there is one
more missing page and we'll see that
episode 17 somewhere they had 10
episodes from Ann Perkins muttering this
is so weird to see so much momentum
everything kicking in absolutely okay
this week you've got Lynch working with
themes the way he likes to wear you just
got a little bit of the theme everywhere
you look and this week investigations
and detectives are a very big role in
your show yes you got 20 sheriff's doing
their work you got the FBI doing their
work
you got the Air Force doing their
investigation and you got the Cusco
brothers I guess you won't have any
trouble collecting the insurance huh
rich em up in Twin Peaks
you've got Andy Brennan who goes out
looking for the truck that hit the kid
last week he meets the owner of the
trucks and the owner the truck is scared
to death to talk about the truck at all
and ask him to meet later at 4:30 you
know he's not going to make it they're
up and I'll tell you everything if you
just meet me at this location he is long
gone and six feet under somewhere at
this point probably probably Richard
knew Linda hmm probably just Richard and
then you got Frank with an awesome
computer that pops up out of the wood
grain oh that was great I want that in
my house yeah I love the the Truman
bat-computer but who would be talking to
you doc Edward got docked a word on
hillbilly duck mm-hmm quick side note
this episode was dedicated to Warren
Frost he plays
a word who is Mark cross is Dan who
passed away in January once again
another posthumous appearance in the
series where we just keep losing actors
as we go now doc Hayward talks to Truman
about the last time he saw Dale Cooper
which was after coop came out of the
black lodge and was acting strangely in
the hospital and says he turned him and
he looked at me and saw that strange
face again he also confirmed that Audrey
Horne survived the explosion at the bank
and ended up in a coma he brings up a
deal went to go visit her too which
brings in all kind of weird and creepy
things that he could have did in that
room but most likely it's probably a
sexual assault rape which is how we got
Richard Horne this isn't the only case
they brought this up twice this episode
about right - we're going to get to the
other one in a minute okay next we go
back to Buckhorn South Dakota where
lieutenant Knox of the air force has
finally arrived to inspect the body of
major Briggs I was right yeah the weird
thing about that body it hasn't aged I
bet that has something to do with the
white lodge boat my mom also during the
sequence
lieutenant Knox goes out to make a phone
call to Colonel Davis yeah and while
she's on the phone and this music comes
in and we see the scary guy in the
background it looks a lot like the guy
in the jail cell from when Hastings was
in jail I think it's the same guy I
don't know we should call the outside
I'm going to call him the man behind
link
we've seen entities kind of like this
before we had Chester Desmond character
interacting with a bruised woman
covering up her face do you know Teresa
banks right the charred black skin seems
to be the telltale thing yes and always
somebody who's sick outwardly
downtrodden like a homeless person or a
vagrant perhaps again I think these
characters have something to do with the
Black Lodge I've a feeling that guy
probably killed me - Briggs on behalf of
Bob and one of the guys maybe in
firewalls room I'm going to go out way
out on a limb and take from Mulholland
Drive that he's the one who's doing it
and say maybe this guy is the
billionaire anyway despite all of that
kind of crazy wacky theory stuff what a
lot of this does confirm is a lot of the
connections we've already been talking
about black ghost or the man behind
Winkies or whatever we call him we've
seen him in two places now for sure
maybe even a third and that ties us to
Hastings Hastings Secretariat's who ray
was going to see and who Bob Cooper was
looking to get ahold of Bob Cooper's
plotline was a big part of this episode
we spent a lot of time there and it
moves the plot for that character along
very quickly yeah speaking of the
expository momentum we mentioned before
so he breaks out of prison this time and
part of that is manipulating the warden
Murphy which we talked about in the past
I said before that mr. strawberry was
probably a red herring but I did also
say I'm trying to defend myself here I
did also say that he was definitely
manipulating the warden on purpose and
that still comes through what I didn't
know what I didn't expect was how
premeditated it was because once he
starts talking about doglegs
we remember the evidence when he was
first brought into the prison yeah all
that Joe McCloskey stuff I don't think
there's gonna be like flashback or
anything on that they just wanted to
establish this guy's like oh I have to
let him out whatever's going on there is
more important than leaving Bob and
prison so he wants them out he doesn't
care and I think it's also important to
point out
how calculating Bob Cooper actually it's
like he's at this point becoming like a
Keyser sze in the story where these
things are planned going back looking at
all the episodes it's more and more
likely that Bob had something to do with
almost everything that we've seen so far
he could be the billionaire we saw a
picture of him that looks like the
villain for back or III or something
right when Cole and Tammy and Albert are
on the plane they look at the photo of
him and he's in South America and he's
looking pretty pimped out now I was
thinking for the longest time that this
sort of Bob Cooper was just a for the
last 25 years this lowlife thug that had
just been a part of you know gambling
prostitution and drugs you uh the hole
all that stuff yeah and backwater
hillbilly stuff but that picture totally
changes that narrative now that does
bring us back to the airplane and
somebody else that we've been talking
about which is Diane cutie
Cole convinces Albert to go with him to
try once again to convince Diane to help
them yeah and then it works and once we
managed to get her all the way to South
Dakota where she finally talks to the
bad Cooper again the plot moves quickly
in this one now the dialogue in that
scene makes you wonder if he raped her
or something happen and he probably
wants to go see her to go get those hey
I got the impression that she was trying
to verify that it was Dale who then was
referring to a time when it should have
been Dale who are you
alternatively it's possible that Diane
has some understanding of the different
Cooper's and would be testing the
otherwise say that it was the badly so
after the interrogation they're talking
outside and Diane's big sort of
privately to cold yeah then she says you
and I love to talk sometime now to me
that's like straight up out of a horror
film was I'll be right back right that
talk may not happen and I'm going she's
probably you know I I think that's a
possibility because it looks like Bob
will come after her now that she's been
brought to the area but I hope that's
not true
I hope we get this I hope so I hope it's
not true the other thing to bring up is
to walk back just a little bit to when
they're on the plane here we learn how
Cole already knew that something was
wrong he didn't tip this hand in Episode
four but he explains to Tammy how they
had sort of like not a safe word but
it's a phrase that was basically I think
understood between Cooper and Cole and
when Cooper delivered the phrase with a
backwards word in it old friend from
this cult to tell something was wrong in
this he explains to Tammy in the fingers
I'm very very happy to see you again old
friend this is the spiritual mound the
spiritual finger you think about that
Tammy it's cool that everyone's actually
believe in this and no one's going to
sniffing it even Frank I thought Frank
would be like and whatever Laura
Palmer's diary this has nothing to do it
everyone is under the impression that
something spiritual otherworldly is
going on right it's just like how
everybody just doesn't even question why
dougie is the way dougie yeah we get a
couple of significant scenes with dougie
Jones this episode as well one of them
involves the bumbling Fusco brothers and
yet another wonderful delivery about
economics and society from Janie II
there's more to life than cars too many
cards too much going on and Doug it's
been under a lot of stress lately if you
want to
know the truth so if I that scene leads
us into the next very important scene
probably arguably the most important
scene with dougie so far he goes all
Jason Bourne history of violence on Ike
right to the net people are noticing
what the hell is that big nose on the
guns
that's his skin that is actually I skin
if you freeze it if you go through that
thing you can tell it's a skin ripping
off during the struggle the evolved arm
is telling presumably Dale to squeeze
his hand off what squeezed his hand off
and sure enough II does squeeze some of
his hand off onto the handle of that gun
and then one more side note about that
scene between my cover on a another
video down the road is the presence of
the red balloon also nothing yeah I have
a feeling those balloons have something
to do with impending doom of war
violence to come we'll see I can see
that let us know what you think about
the red balloons down in the comments
finally we have that over team minute
scene of the sweeping of the peanuts and
leaves I thought they're gonna end it
there I thought they're just gonna okay
here we go here and it just keeps going
how everyone thinks it's just a metaphor
for the show itself and now yes we know
the storylines have taken forever to go
around but it's starting to come
together everything sweeping together
all the plots are coming to one
everything is converging it to Twin
Peaks which makes me think it might also
be sort of a metaphor for we're
finishing up with the old stuff and
we're going to move on with the new
stuff I hope right after that we get
really properly introduced to John
Michell right now which is yet another
Renault brother who is running the
Roadhouse and it's still running a
prostitution ring okay now some Easter
eggs from this episode and some
observations moving in the next episode
what did you notice very well right off
the top we got Gordon whistling the
intro to angle by Rammstein
[Music]
which is angel I don't know what that's
going anywhere but that's awesome I
think that might also be a sound sample
adding something not sure maybe now the
same Keynes like for that got a corncob
poster Garmin bozhe maybe because right
before you see the Quan Chi poster what
you see the black goats walking to the
hall okay
I can I can get behind that pain and
sorrow is coming it's building I can
kind of get it there's corn cob there's
the mushroom cloud okay look we see the
return of Ben Horne and Ashley Judd at
the Great Northern Beverly yes and we
also see the return of the key the key
has finally made it to the Great
Northern and you also noted something
else okay so everyone point out like
those sounds are coming from that world
and is Josie Packard stuck in the wall
maybe but that actress isn't coming back
that noise in the room I'm 90% certain
that's a Tibetan meditation bulb just
going around and around around
meditation and is a big part of David
Lynch's just personal philosophy and
outlook on life yes and sort of seeped
its way into his work the theme again
with the bad and it goes all the way
back to L Cooper if again laid still
Dale Cooper wants to wake up he's got to
go to Twin Peaks dougie Jones has to be
a way to get to 20 ok the last sort of
Easter Egg is in the rni our diner and
the song sleepwalk is playing and you
notice something that I didn't even pick
up on right in the background you get
here Bala will make you school
just at the very end of that team the
whole episode gave off the vibe that
something Bad's about the abbot and also
just some of the great benefits of David
Lynch doing his own sound mixing so some
of the things that we have to think
about for next episode include when bad
Cooper was talking to
warden Murphy he was making his request
he wanted a car he also wanted a friend
in the glove compartment raided honor
that's totally a Jackie Brown kind of
vibe there yeah Rey's done after he gets
his information the episode also opened
with Jerry Horne out in the woods very
comical phone call with Ben but there's
something about that that same might not
just been him high right he could have
went to the White Lodge for all we know
right there's definitely an indication
that something happened out there in the
woods
and he lost his car and he doesn't know
where he is it just seems like the we're
supposed to think that he just got high
but there's got to be more to that story
also at the very very end of the episode
we're at the are in our diner when
somebody just burst into the diner and
says
now in the credits being is played by
Riley Lynch we saw him once in the
Roadhouse already performing now that
performance scene is very weird if you
go back and look at it the lighting
everything is very black logy I think it
has more to do again with that sparkle
drug and more to do with the game from
the violence going on yeah that's like
total left-field although I would say
that and I know I'm often wrong about
these things if it doesn't have any plot
line to it it might just be a call-out
to the fact that there's no musical
scene to end this episode and there's
it's basically a guy who's running and
saying where's the musical scene and
then run that also people notice with a
slight change in that diner shot the
beginning of the shot you can see people
sitting down the table he screams worth
being and then it changes I think that's
just a continuity error with the editors
they need a clean shot and I think that
was the best one they had for the
opening then they just cut back and
forth right it could just be one
establishing shot than the other shots
that are effectively the scene but if
you want to say that it doesn't mean
anything that really you died on that
hill this week not me I'm all for it
before we're done for the week we wanted
to get some of your comments that we
liked the most that made us think a
little bit more from Jen Johan to hit us
up on Twitter last week did you catch
the clue of sunny Jim reading Hardy Boys
secret of the Old Mill now I'm glad
somebody caught that because I was
sticking in the back of my mind it was
in my notes what the heck of that book
and I'm glad somebody caught it but also
things kind of cool is it the secret of
the old mill like that takes us back to
the like feuding between the Packard's
and the horns and the rich history of
logging and Twin Peaks and of course the
burning of the Old Mill those are all
blue bucks far away
hey now most people are getting very
tired of dougie Jones and a lot of you
were predicting very hopefully that the
encounter with Ike to spike would snap
dougie out of it and bring Dale Cooper
back Jason holder said since you asked I
think it will be a murder attempt by the
ice pick assess and that will wake
dougie in the coop wake up don't die
well unfortunately that didn't happen I
thought that would be the case I died
really wake up on that another commenter
pointed out that it could be the trees
you
beyond something here give all the way
back to the first time we reduced to
Debbie Jones we need to with Jay to the
caller ID what do you see what the first
thing he looks up and sees Sycamore
dougie Jones like to go back in time
Peaks came out of it
I'm sort of in the camp at this point
that if like the spike didn't do it we
might be in for the long haul and to
that end there are some of you out there
who have gotten used to dougie resisting
one says I don't know about all of you
but I'm enjoying the fruitcake Cooper /
dougie character and maybe that's the
attitude all the rest of you need to
adopt for the next I don't know maybe 10
episodes who knows oh and the last one
we want to leave you with came from
night ish in the YouTube comments and
said one thing that you missed quote I
already brushed my teeth as the first
ever dialogue sonny jim jim says in the
season quote i think the brush my teeth
was the last line of cooper in season
two that is an awesome observation that
i think both of us missed and that's
what i love about having you guys down
in the comments helping us out keep it
going
thank you so much for watching make sure
to hit us up in the comment section down
below
we missed it only make sure to subscribe
while you're at it you can also hit us
on Twitter our handles are in the
description below yes and as always you
can hear the GameSpot universe later